
Abstract: In recent years, human activity recognition has become a hot topic inside the scientific
community. The reason to be under the spotlight is its direct application in multiple domains,
like healthcare or fitness. Additionally, the current worldwide use of smartphones makes it particularly
easy to get this kind of data from people in a non-intrusive and cheaper way, without the need for
other wearables. 

In this paper, we introduce our orientation-independent, placement-independent
and subject-independent human activity recognition dataset. The information in this dataset is
the measurements from the accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer, and GPS of the smartphone.
Additionally, each measure is associated with one of the four possible registered activities: inactive,
active, walking and driving. 

This work also proposes asupport vector machine (SVM) model to
perform some preliminary experiments on the dataset. Considering that this dataset was taken from
smartphones in their actual use, unlike other datasets, the development of a good model on such data
is an open problem and a challenge for researchers. By doing so, we would be able to close the gap
between the model and a real-life application.

Giving birth to the knowledge area called human activity recognition (HAR), the accurate
identification of different human activities has become a hot research topic. 

This area tries to identify
the action performed by a subject based on the data records from a set of sensors. The recording of
these sensors is carried out while the subject performs a series of well-defined movements, such as
nodding, raising the hand, walking, running or driving. In this sense, wearable devices, such as
activity bracelets or smartphones, have become of great use as sources of this sort of data. This kind of
devices, especially the latter ones, provide a broad set of sensors in a convenient size which can be used
relatively easy with high-grade performance and accuracy. 

The researchers use the information about
people’s behaviors gathered by these sensors to support the demands from domains like healthcare,
fitness or home automation [1]. The result from the intersection between the widespread sensing all
over the world, due to the smartphones and the models developed from that continuous recording,
is a research area that has attracted increasing attention in recent years [2].

 Provide and make publicly available a new HAR dataset closer to a realistic scenario (see the files
in Supplementary Materials). This dataset is independent of the device orientation and placement,
while it is also individual independent.
 The new dataset adds additional signals not very explored until today like the GPS and
magnetometer sensor measurements.
 A first reference model is provided for this dataset, after applying a specific sliding window
length and overlap.
 A study of the best architecture for longer-themed activities, such as those suggested in our work.







